# Interactive Maps with Folium

This lab creates interactive choropleth maps using .csv and .geojson data files in order to answer the question of how many Starbucks are there in North Los Angeles (LA) County. The final objective is to build a precise map that shows Starbucks locations in LA County, California and to figure out which map is most accurate. Various libraries are used in this lab such as [Folium](https://python-visualization.github.io/folium/), which is a helpful tool to create maps and Pandas, which combines different parts of datasets to create maps as well. The maps that are represented in the code are two cholorpleth maps, one of Starbucks locations by zipcode (first map) and the other map uses census data from 2012 to display unemployment by state as a percentage (third map). The other map is a map containing point data of Starbucks locations (second map).

Through doing this lab, I learned that it is vital to know what parameters to use when representing a problem. Using zipcodes is helpful when looking at employment from state to state as a percent of a population, however it's not helpful when trying to look at point data because it groups all the data together into a shape. As shown by the difference between the two maps, choosing something that is not representative of the data can greatly skew the result. The first choropleth map that showed the Starbucks locations by zipcode gives the impression that there are a higher number of Starbucks than there actually are. The choropleth map shows that there are Starbucks spread out in north LA County, but in reality there are Starbucks in only two major cities in the north. The point data of Starbucks locations uses latitude and longitude data so that the locations are geographically accurate, but zipcode data is too general to provide an accurate representation to answer the question.



# Citation
This tutorial is based on [this Medium Tutorial by Ritvik Kharkar](https://towardsdatascience.com/making-3-easy-maps-with-python-fb7dfb1036) and the associated [Github repo for his tutorial](https://github.com/ritvikmath/StarbucksStoreScraping). I've updated deprecated Folium code; re-orderd some of the steps to explain how his use of zip codes as a geography, while well intentioned and executed, is a huge conceptual problem; and added a brief follow-up showing a solid use of administrative units for choropleth maps.
